---
layout: post
title:  "Xylophone: MVP Plans"
date:   2016-05-20 21:17:00 -0400
category: projects
---

Before I get started, I want to point out that this blog is all about
chronicling the complete desgin process of the xylophone, not just the
end when things go well. The goal is to show one way to go about the
complete process. With that in mind, this post is all about my project
plan, and how I plan on actually accomplishing everything.

I'm a big fan of the ["Minimum Viable Product" Process](http://themacro.com/articles/2016/01/minimum-viable-product-process/), particularly for projects
where the biggest risk is "the underlying assumptions are junk", not "we're
going to run out of time, but otherwise know what we're doing." I also like
this process for fun projects, because you tend to go from "idea" to
"something I can hold" really quickly.

For people who don't want to click the link, the key idea is probably:

> An MVP is a process that you repeat over and over again: Identify your
> riskiest assumption, find the smallest possible experiment to test that
> assumption, and use the results of the experiment to course correct.

In "Engineering Design Method" terms , you're basically doing an FMEA at
each step, and then doing the minimum amount of work possible to eliminate
the highest ranked item from the FMEA. Once you're done, repeat until there's
nothing left.

For this project, my biggest risk is the electronics won't get working,
followed by the mechanical casing being built and not being ugly. Hence,
Version .1 of the design will be called when:

1. The solenoids are controlled by microcontroller.
2. The physical design is mocked in cardboard.

I think normally when following the MVP Process, it makes sense to plan,
atleast nomimally, all the versions in the beginning, and I do have
a nominal plan in my head for how to structure everything else. I think
it is good, though, to the best of your ability, to focus on the one task
ahead with plenty of checks to make sure nothing is
missed as the project progresses.

